Course Overview
COURSE 2 - APPLIED STATISTICS

 

Course Duration - 3 Weeks

 

Course Description

Organisations are surrounded with numerical data and information. All of us in day-to-day routine use numbers in our calculations. Problems in business contain a great degree of a quantitative element in the form of facts and figures. It is essential for professionals to carry out data analysis and interpretation for effective decisions. In this context, they need to prepare quantitative arguments to justify their decisions. Decision making using statistical methods is the answer for accomplishing this purpose. This course will focus on the role of Statistics in Modelling and Decision Making.

In this course, we will start with the statistical jargon and need for statistical tools & techniques. while deep-diving into the commonly used methodologies for data science as part of descriptive and Inferential Statistics.

 

Course Objectives

After completing this course, you will be able to:

Understand and appreciate the most widely used tools of statistics which form the basis for rational and sound business decisions
Develop skills in analysis and interpretation of data
Focus on problem recognition and test hypothesis in the context of business decision-making
Handle challenging problems using the appropriate analytics tool
 

Course Prerequisites

Students are expected to have knowledge of basic Mathematics (high school level)
Basic working knowledge of Python (refer to course 1)
 

Pedagogy

The objectives envisaged in this course will be met through recorded video lectures, weekend live virtual sessions, online learning material, and hands-on case studies which will include practice exercises and graded assignments. Students are expected to read/practice beyond the video lectures.

 

Course Content

 

Week-1: Basic Statistics

Data collection
presentation and visuals
Measures of central tendency
Dispersion
Correlation 
Week 2: Probability & Probability Distribution

Introduction to Probability & distribution
Using probability as a measure of certainty
Baye's theorem
Types of Probability distribution
Week 3: Estimation and Hypothesis Testing

Central Limit theorem 
Formulation of Hypothesis
Errors
Types of tests
Week 4: Project

 

Tools

Jupyter Notebook. 

